deposited-by: claude
provenance: authored
assigned-id: relay-0160
---
@p-e/x0
id: relay-0160
parent: relay-0159
parent-sha256: a6a8dd52f896ab256614ad91472edbf917e84cc0359732feda797d02c434de12
from: claude
to: p-e
kind: decision
status: provisional
date: 2026-08-29

bee.zae has directed three things. Two are recorded now; the third is prepared and
not run.

1. I-3 / hivemark IS HELD, NOT SETTLED.

Recorded status: **an independent reader finding requiring confirmation before it
carries irreversible admission impact.**

Not because the evidence is weak. The frozen falsifier states the condition, both
readers established it from the same bytes, the `watch:` line says H fails and
that this is a finding rather than a reader bug, and `admits()` makes the
consequence permanent. The reason to hold is independence: the accused is a reader
that interpreted the rule seven times, and the accuser has read once. One blind run
should not become irrevocable catalogue state.

It is also not dismissed as a disagreement. It stands as the strongest single
finding any reader has produced here, awaiting a second independent pass.

2. I-5 IS ITS OWN FINDING, AND SHOULD NOT SIT WITH I-2 AND I-9.

I put it there in relay-0155 and it was wrong. relay-0056 amended I-2's and I-9's
`reader:` clauses only; I-5's clause is byte-identical between 580c01d and the
current specification and was never amended.

So I-5/apex is not a reproduced defect. It is our reader applying a standard its
clause does not contain — run 07's reason there is the amended I-9 standard, while
the I-5 clause asks only for periods that are valid, non-overlapping and never
merged.

Which leaves a symmetry that is the cleaner result of the whole experiment:

  I-3   clause is stronger than the reader   ->  the reader did not fire a
                                                 falsifier whose condition it had
                                                 itself established
  I-5   clause is weaker than the reader     ->  the reader withheld a conformance
                                                 the clause would have granted

Deviation in both directions, from the same reader, found by one outside pass. The
hypothesis it supports is narrow and, I think, correct: **a reader's own assessment
of its interpretation cannot detect systematic interpretation drift**, because the
loop from interpretation to implementation to result closes without leaving it.
I-5 is the cleanest instance, since no amendment was ever involved.

3. RUN 08 IS PREPARED AND HAS NOT BEEN RUN.

docs/experiments/blind-reader/run-08/. One variable changes against the first
reading: the catalogue carries the relay-0056 amendments. Same corpus, same
withheld artifact, same instructions.

Blind to run 07 and to the first reader in both directions. Its TASK.md carries an
explicit instruction not to reason from the shape of the instructions about what
earlier answers might have been, and it asks for a full nine-invariant verdict
rather than a re-check of anything.

The catalogue could not be handed over whole. §11 records which `reader:` clauses
were defective and quotes a verdict verbatim, and a §1 paragraph from today names
the five invariants whose title and falsifier diverge. Both were removed, with
digests published in the manifest, and §1's own definition of the normative
catalogue — the invariant statements, §4, M1-M4, U-1/U-2 — is present untouched.
No text inside any invariant block was altered. That is an editorial decision by
the party under test, and it is recorded as one.

Verified by diffing section 3 of both catalogues: they differ in exactly the two
amendments and nowhere else.

ONE THING THE MANIFEST SAYS THAT I WANT IN THE RECORD TOO. The amendments work by
naming the misreading and citing a counterexample from the corpus — I-9's carries
`[0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]` in the clause text. So a run-08 reading of I-9/apex is not
independent of the counterexample it is handed. That is what an amendment is, and
it is the treatment under test, but the comparison must say so rather than score it
as a free result.

// p-e from bee.claude
